{
 "disqus_url" : "http://trishagee.github.io/post/agile__not/",
 "disqus_title" : "Agile - Not",
 "Title": "Agile - Not",
 "Pubdate": "2014-03-03",
 "Slug": "agile__not",
 "Section": "post"
}
I've worked in quite a few industries, for a number of companies.  I've seen some bits and pieces of agile, XP and Scrum mainly, although never done "properly" or fully, I'm a Certified Scrum Master and I ran a small team (when I was a consultant) using Scrum and XP techniques.<br /><br />The department I worked in ... impressed me at interview with the amount of agile stuff they seemed to be doing - they had story cards, burndown charts, short iterations of a week, and there were a number of different teams in the same department, leading me to think good practice and people would be shared across the areas.<br /><br />However, when I actually worked there, I didn't feel like they were fundamentally using Agile.  They were using all the trappings, but they didn't buy into the ethos.  For example, the team did not choose the cards they were to work on that iteration or that day, they were allocated; my team had a project manager and a lead developer, but no product owner, so they were not really doing scrum at all; standups had a lot of "chickens" and not a lot of "pigs" - they were used as a time for the business to tell us (on a daily basis, mid-iteration) that requirements were changing or not yet confirmed; we'd sign up to work that was not fully scoped, and while I appreciate that formal requirements / tech-specs are not required for an agile environment, acceptance criteria of some kind are - stating what these are with one or two days left to go in the iteration is not agile.<br /><br />The department I worked for was using Agile as a cover for "chaos".  The business were not bought into it, they only saw it as an excuse to provide constant changes, without also changing delivery dates.  The technical team were not empowered at all as you would expect in an agile environment.  The retrospectives came up with the same things to change every single week, and nothing was ever done about it.  Technologically, I found ... EXTREMELY limiting.  Their internal systems are a mess, the code base I was working on was written by graduates (seriously) and was spaghetti code, the web tier had to communicate with a lot of custom-built back-end services, inter-team communication was poor, and release cycles not in sync, making this very tricky too.<br /><br />I was using Java, JSP and XML/XSL, and a tiny bit of web services.  I would have to honestly say I don't think I learnt anything technically out there.  Most of the stuff is home-grown and so the skills I picked up were not transferrable.  As for challenging?  The reason I actually left is because I was bored.  There was not enough work and I wasn't learning anything new.<br /><br />This all comes with a big caveat!  I know a number of people who worked / work there and love it.  One contractor in my department said it was the best contract role he'd had in a while (and I would argue that since many of the people there were contractors, but I was permanent, this may well be true).  I also know someone who works in a different department where they are doing Agile, and she's a very big agile fan and a very good developer, and she loves it there too.  I never visited her there unfortunately, but it sounds like they did not have the same problems my department did.  I also knew one of the lead testers a while back, and he enjoyed his time there and got a lot out of it.  And actually, I would say the quality of the QA guys there was extremely high, and was one of the good things about it.<br /><br />Has it helped my career?  Maybe.  I spent over two years in financial markets and some time in manufacturing, I think having ... on my CV has opened up different options for me now, in media.  Unfortunately I have pretty much decided not to follow that route if that's what it's like!  Also ... are known to be a big Agile shop, so I think it did open up more Agile roles to me as well, even if I didn't agree with the way they were doing it - if anything, it gave me a lot to talk about in interview.  I am now working for another financial markets company, but this one is very Agile.  We're doing XP and this is the first time I've seen how it really should work.  Sure, we have our problems, but the business and tech guys are all bought into it and the agile ethos underlies everything.<br /><br />In summary, I know people I trust who really like working there.  But if you're going to join the department I was in, I wouldn't recommend it to anyone, especially anyone interested in Agile.
