{
 "disqus_url" : "http://trishagee.github.io/post/informatica_low_latency_sumit/",
 "disqus_title" : "Informatica low latency sumit",
 "Title": "Informatica low latency sumit",
 "Pubdate": "2011-10-01",
 "Slug": "informatica_low_latency_sumit",
 "Section": "post"
}
People I know - Doug C, Mauro, Amir &amp; Mike, Martin, Tony Harrop, Olivier,<br /><br />No women speakers.<br />more suit-y than the stac one but less corporate than tradetech<br />familiar names (products, companies, people) cropping up<br />Inter thread communication<br />sero object genertion<br />30% improvement in .net by removing object generation<br />advanced striping?<br /><br />1) performance 2) ease of use 3) enterprise<br />informatica taking tricks from disruptor into ultra messaging<br />why is management and monitoring "enterprise"?<br /><br />glad I'm not blonde any more<br />mechanical sympathy - "this is not as hard as it seems. &nbsp;Actually you end up with solutions which are muc simpler"<br /><br />microburst are the norm<br />is low latency only an infrastructure/tool problem? What do mortal developers need to do in their normal code?<br />queueing theory<br />gut instinct. &nbsp;go with gut, test, then find out what's right. &nbsp;wonder if gut is another name for experience?<br />multiple threads of execution = non-determinism<br />get rid of the contended resources = how to scale<br />so, don't manage contention - remove it<br />what's a distributed hash?<br />high performacne computer - data + behaviour. &nbsp;DDD?<br />behaviour has to run next to the data in order to perform<br />this is how naure works - each individual has its own model of the world and passes messages between the two. &nbsp;You don't reach into each others heads and manipulate the neurons. &nbsp;many computer programs do<br />you need reconciliation<br />reconciliation = recombine = cost<br /><br />big data<br />use the right number of abstractions<br />single writer<br />"trust your gut". &nbsp;Still think this only works if you have a god understanding<br /><br />benchmarks<br />benchmark = more an art than a science<br />must be useful for customers<br />does it look and feel right<br />people design things from infrastrcture into logic. &nbsp;is backwards. &nbsp;(bet this is because of enterprise constraints)<br />write logic first and test that. &nbsp;then you have a model you can talk to the business about. &nbsp;Then you can think about architecture<br />when you know what you're implementing you can use science to figure out wha tyour constraints are<br />creating model is the creative bit. &nbsp;After that it;s science - design experiment to test it works the way it should. &nbsp;feedback loop.<br /><br /><br /><br /><br />Latest innvoations<br />Nimrod Gindi<br />Graeme Burnett<br />Gordon Hughes<br />Dave Riddoch<br />graeme burnett - has used techniques from Martin very successfully<br />kernel bypass<br />predicatable latency.<br />fpga<br />&nbsp;- fix, market data<br />&nbsp;- pain is integration<br /><br />usual problem is, I've got a solutiont oday, how do I make it faster?<br />intel has a lab in winnersh specifically for financial markets<br />Martin's work has really been noticed and respected<br />DR: writing parallel code is not just hard, it's tremendously hard to get it to work fast<br />the fastest systems are arranged with minimal number of thread/context swtiches<br />do these things really generate innovation, or are tehy just vendor-fests?<br />"mst people's worst jitter comes from their own apps" - DR<br />analog computing applied to trading<br />trading without a computational interface?<br /><br />buy side vs sell side?<br />is it bad that we don't really know anything about traditional financial markets at LMAX?<br />whenever there's new innovation, think, how can I use it - NG<br /><br /><br /><br /><br />
