{
 "disqus_url" : "http://trishagee.github.io/post/qcon_agile_project_management_lessons_learned_at_google/",
 "disqus_title" : "QCon: Agile Project Management: Lessons learned at Google",
 "Title": "QCon: Agile Project Management: Lessons learned at Google",
 "Pubdate": "2007-03-15",
 "Slug": "qcon_agile_project_management_lessons_learned_at_google",
 "Section": "post"
}
<a href="http://qcon.infoq.com/qcon/speakers/show_speaker.jsp?oid=114"> Jeff Sutherland</a>, Scrum co-founder<br /><br />- Google ads <br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; - you can make money on your blog with Google Ads<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; - is this a threat to TC's real time content serving?<br />- scrum = bootstrap process - given them a small amount when they start with nothing and they will eventually bootstrap themselves into a useful and productive team<br />- I've written "GM&amp; Ford are dead".&nbsp; They've been looking at lean for a couple of decades now and they still don't get it.&nbsp; It's coming top-down not bottom up.<br />- Yahoo's scrum was driven from one engineer who went on one training course.<br />- Google sacked all their management.&nbsp; Innovation is driven from the bottom.&nbsp; How do they deliver anything?&nbsp; And why did this not work at Touch Clarity?<br />- "Trust smart people to figure it out" - there you go, trust again.<br />- Ad words application needs to integrate with other things, hence it needs structure - it has delivery points and things it is expected to deliver.<br />- An individual product owner has final say over what goes in.&nbsp; They may need to get feedback from other stakeholders though<br />- Google people have a webpage with current work and 3 months objectives - this keeps people on track better than an HR project because it's driven by your own discipline and "expected" but not a proscribed process<br />- Management in real life is NOT common sense.&nbsp; Following "common sense" frequently leads to unforeseen problems.&nbsp; The dude gave some examples of this but I can't think what they are now.&nbsp; But it's all about psychology, and comes back to things like Harley Davidson adverts purposefully NOT being aimed at the lawyers and doctors who actually buy them.<br />- Burndown charts.&nbsp; Don't think we got them right in TC but I think they are probably a lot more important than I realise.<br />- Scrum sounds more focussed than XP.<br />- Check out his ABC of scrum - I tried to google it but now I can't find anything about it or remember what it was<br />- Scrum masters in charge of multiple teams sounds goos - leverage potential and compare &amp; use strengths from each project.<br />- Check out work in progress section later (???)<br />- Need to find out more information on how to integrate QA into scrum - this is missing/not-slick in both KI and TC<br />- Daily scrum task board is almost exactly what we did on TC wall<br />- He mentions the iteration including testing.&nbsp; I want to know exactly what is meant by this - can you test what's in the current iteration (because of continuous integration) or are you testing last iteration's items?<br />- Damn I must have been writing fast. I wrote "Veolcity" and nothing else<br />- No PMs in team during implementation, as you want to minimise disruption<br />- Scrum weddings<br />- Scrum and XP can work together<br />- If a sprint is going to fail, can it and start again. - re-plan.<br />- Personal issues cause 50% of issues.&nbsp; Scrum allows you to address these impediments and treat them as seriously as technical issues - we're back to people being the key part of Agile<br />- Prius was developed in 15 months.&nbsp; Don't think Ford can match that.&nbsp; Was the Puma 18?&nbsp; But they never managed it again.&nbsp; Toyota do it by sticking a bunch of people in a room and saying "we expect this car to be ready when we come back".&nbsp; leave them to it, they're the experts.
