{
 "disqus_url" : "http://trishagee.github.io/post/soujava_comes_to_london/",
 "disqus_title" : "SouJava comes to London!",
 "Title": "SouJava comes to London!",
 "Pubdate": "2012-02-22",
 "Slug": "soujava_comes_to_london",
 "Section": "post"
}
Lightning talks<br />&nbsp;- Ben &amp; Trisha on Adopt a JSR (materials needed)<br />&nbsp;- Richard Gomes - Scala high performance computing<br />&nbsp; &nbsp;- comparison betwen C, which needs to know about the GPU, and scala which uses a library which takes care of interaction with GPU<br />&nbsp; &nbsp;- what are the benchmarks measured against?<br />&nbsp; &nbsp;- cons - may contain bugs?<br /><br /><br /><br />Zero downtime JEE<br />Fabiane Bizinella Nardon<br /><br />YOu're wrong if you think your job is finished when you're in production<br />Healthcare - one new application a month, with allowed downtime<br />Lean startup - everything is a hypothesis - you know you don't know anything. Test in production (uswitch) - statistics very important to you. &nbsp;YOu need to be able to launch several version at once<br /><br />1) how to do continuous deployment with zero downtime<br />2) How to monitor your application in production<br />3) How to debug your application in production<br /><br />Good, confident and practiced speaker. &nbsp;Funny.<br /><br />JEE REST JSF<br />Elastic search<br />mongo db<br /><br />hudson<br />deploying on glassfish via hudson - think this is fine if you're just deploying a war?<br />can't simply redeploy, mulitple redeploys will run out of memory<br />blue green deployment - two machines load balanced<br /><br />(interesting and useful)<br />set the health check variable to false from hudson before deploy, configure the load balancer to check the http status of the url instead of the actual server status<br />(dreaded waits - 10 second wait values)<br />deploy 10 version per day with no downtime<br />don't forget you need rollback as well - simplest is to save your binaries so you can redeploy your previous version<br />Tomcat allows multiple versions in the same container - more complicates - need to manage sessions.<br />live rebel - not mature<br />wonder if we could run jrebel<br />you might need to change your architecture. &nbsp;e.g persist sessions in DB, or play(?). &nbsp;Should be stateless so that you can do zero-downtime deployments.<br /><br />zabbix?<br />your sysadmins know the best tools for monitoring<br />heap size in glassfish<br />if you enabe all the montoring options in glassfish does that affect performance?<br />glassfish has a rest interface for grabbing all the stats<br />is this where the idea for jodie came from?<br />can configure actions on zabbix. &nbsp;e.g. if load too high, what do you do? &nbsp;We could totally use that for disk space, or for fix session resets?<br /><br /><br /><br />JHome<br />soujava<br />open source hardware<br />can't have fun with ejb :)<br />open source robotics is a big market for teaching kids<br />automating coffee machine<br />full appliation to turn on coffee machine<br />home brewing beer with jhome<br />jhome a fun way to learn jee6<br />real object oriented programming. &nbsp;great way to learn domain driven design?<br />arduino<br />remote control your sail boat<br />vinicius uses his hands like isra :)<br />open the door using twitter with wifi access<br />java tv<br />2k memory - avoid using complex classes like String :)<br />google android develpoment kit<br />electronic prototyping is a growing market<br />smart clothing... ooooh. &nbsp;with an iLike button<br />DIY automation - not about doing it cheaper<br />useful for christmas<br />make the led strip an information radiator for things like the TFL tube status<br />Java might be overkill, but it's good for adding the intelligence in the system, e.g. who opened the garage door<br />ou can drive an ejb by breathing...<br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br />Yara:<br />Duchess in Brazil just starting<br />they use it as a platform to publicise women speakers, women's achievements<br />come and talk in BRazil :)<br /><br />ISrael asks why Mazz isn't involved
