{
 "disqus_url" : "http://trishagee.github.io/post/tibco/",
 "disqus_title" : "Tibco",
 "Title": "Tibco",
 "Pubdate": "2011-11-08",
 "Slug": "tibco",
 "Section": "post"
}
<br />70-80% trades all done using computers (automated?)<br /><br />High frequency trading<br />Latency in the old days was who yells loudest<br />OK this is a rubbish venue, cannot see the screen at all<br /><br />you want to go fast because your strategies are monitoring, deciding and executing<br />arbitrage<br />shouldn't this smooth out the market?<br />if you're trading on many exchanges, where should you locate your server?<br />put the whole trading infrstructure into a single box - because of latency<br />execution changes with this 0 trying to do more in parallel<br />processing latency comes back to the application<br />minimise IO, in memory databases, take this stuff off the path<br />this is all for htf, trading side, not exchanges?<br />compliance, risk is v important, pre-trade risk is crucial<br />the race is on for who will offer the fastest latency matching engine<br />how you measure latency -<br />multi-core multi-socket architecture is a must have today<br />shaving microseconds off the infrastructure means a lot.<br />not just placing orders, but cancelling them really fast<br />shared memory for high performance messaging<br />rdma?<br /><br />John (business)<br />already saw this guy at STAC<br />each tool has its own place and use case<br />self-desribing data. &nbsp;What, like XML? &nbsp;Not carrying the meta data, setting up types of data instead.<br />"not a huge performance hit for Java or .net vs C"<br />how messages get from a to b is centrally managed and controlled<br />can change meta data centrally too<br />in future, ability to expand ftl beyond the data centre<br /><br /><br />Ben - Citihub<br />understanding how complex it really is to use middleware - you can't just use the latest thing<br />he says so as well :)<br />where to look for latency<br />why middleware is so significant in the big picture<br />start by measuring<br />timeloards looking after time<br />cost per microsecond improvement<br />work out the value - find out how much of an advantage you can get for the cheapest price - prioritise the improvements you can make<br />cheapest most effective change is to start from the bottome - location, connectivity, etc<br />next up, hardware is cheap and effective<br />messaging fits into all layers - messaging central / key cornerstone to optimising latency<br />"this isn't rocket-science"<br />visceral<br />usabilty is important even for (especially for?) low latency messaging?<br />clean separation between development and administration?<br /><br />technology is never particularly revolutionary<br />1000times more conductive than air, much more efficient (if you can get heat outside the data centre)<br />30-60% reduction in cost purely because it's more efficient<br />4.93Gh - one of the fastest computers ever roduced<br />if you can keep the chips cool it will increase the chip's life cycle<br />237nanos<br />4.2 million messages per second<br />used assembler to verify it really was that fast<br />mmm, bell curves<br />ftl v deterministic (i.e. standard deviation)<br />optimised everything to get that level of determinism, lack of spikes, etc<br />ftl does a subset, but the things it does it does really well<br /><br /><br /><br /><br />
