{
 "disqus_url" : "http://trishagee.github.io/post/ucl_conference/",
 "disqus_title" : "UCL Conference",
 "Title": "UCL Conference",
 "Pubdate": "2011-06-28",
 "Slug": "ucl_conference",
 "Section": "post"
}
This week LMAX sent a delegation (including yours truly) to UCL's algorithmic trading conference.  It was an afternoon event, and a mix of industry and acedmeia.  I found the combination interedsting and useful – the academic side suggests more method to our madness, the industry side shows how it's applied.<br /><br />The conference was a platform to launch the competition they're running – create an algorithnm to trade on their in-house system.  One that wins lots of money, of course.  Their platform takes prices from a number of venues including LMAX.<br /><br />The prizes are all sponsored by industry, not surprisingly, although I believe the competeition is open to all.  The idea I guess is to appeal to poor PhD Students.  They kept talking about how #20 000 is a big deal to a student.  Dude, it's a big deal to ME and I work in banking/finance already.<br /><br />one of the prizes, however, is to the best female trasder.  gnnnghhhhhhh.  I've talked about this before.  Short version is, I'mnot sure how this attracts women in to the game, and I'm not sure it makes the women look good.  I counted between 6 and 12 women in the room, myself included (\I can't help but play the diversity game at conferences.  That's about average for women.  Was surprised at the proprotion of .  If I won that, how does that improve my status?  How is that a good deal?  I win out of mybe 20 entrants.  The overall winner will be winning out of hundreds.  It's jkjust creatuing a special case and I think it does more harm than good.  So fine, BarCap, who put up- the money, might hire the winner  but that's one woman out of how many, and who's to say she's any better than 10% if the other entrants?  It's crap, its meaningless, it's belittling to women and I', not convinced it makes progress in the right direction.<br /><br />Of couse, I'm going to enter.  It's #5000!  Still, the onmly way I can ease my conscience is by aiming to win one or more of the other prizes as well  That will prove it's a real success and not just because I'm the best of a rubish group of sub-humans who prefer the colour pink and buying shoes.<br /><br /><br />Am I going to bang on about gender in these industries again?  Probably not.  I am doing what I can to feed my input into groups that want to target women (mostly with What Not To Do)., I have a meeting with a company about this next week in fact.  I am going to contunue pushing educastion at the younger levels at school (pre-GSCE) to try and show kids what this industry is really like, in theory to break stereotypes.  but I am a bit sick of being asked the question what can we do.  Or are you in HR.<br /><br />It's a great advantage being a girl, especially at those conferences.  People want to talk to you.  people want to recreuit you. I love it.  Part of me doesnt want to invite more women in, I'm special, I'm different, I stand out.  But I love my job, I love my life, and I hate the thought that other poeiple (not just girls, but guys who think they're not into this scene) are missing out on this because they have some stereotype in their head of what it;s about.<br /><br />Snyway enough o fhtat.  Tuesday went well.Martin did his bit on real time risk.  I did my schmoozing thing.  LMAX got publicity,  I forgot to take photos.  I learnt a lot, it was one of those events where talking to people, listening to the presentations, gets you thyinking, gets your brain buzzing.  It helps to pull your mind out of the minutiae of every day life.<br /><br />Wish they had a prize for person to lose the most money.
