{
 "disqus_url" : "http://trishagee.github.io/post/working_remotely/",
 "disqus_title" : "working remotely",
 "Title": "working remotely",
 "Pubdate": "2013-05-24",
 "Slug": "working_remotely",
 "Section": "post"
}
Wordpress<br /><div>Stack Exchange</div><div>10gen</div><div>FogCreek</div><div>Atlassian??<br /><br /><br />One of the most obvious differences I faced when I moved from LMAX to 10gen was the working conditions. &nbsp;I don't mean like being deep underground in some dangerous situation vs being pampered by eunachs. &nbsp;No, I mean that LMAX takes Agile pretty seriously, in terms of practices like pair programming, and at 10gen I'm in a team of two (ish), and we're on different continents.<br /><br />In my current role, I have a lot of different responsibilities. &nbsp;Broadly, I do evangelism (speaking at conferences, blogging, community stuff) and development (bug fixes, features, and support).<br /><br />So although I work from London, where we have an office, I'm basically working remotely, because my pair and I are not co-located. &nbsp;We also have another developer in Belarus. &nbsp;There are a variety of other people who's work overlaps with ours, including other people who work on Java "stuff" (but not the driver), Ross on the Scala driver, and all the other driver developers in the various languages - sharing knowledge across the drivers not only brings us closer to our goal of consistency, but also gives us the advantages of being in a larger team than we really are. &nbsp;And, of course, hearing about patterns and paradigms in other languages can lead to some intersting ideas even in poor, old-fashioned Java.<br /><br />But the point is.<br /><br />10gen has embraced the idea of a distributed team, at least for driver development. &nbsp;If you think about it, it's very natural for an open source project, and many of our driver developers created or worked on those drivers before 10gen brought the driver and its developers on board. &nbsp;Each driver has a couple (or more) devel pers working on it, and you communicate via the code, or e-mail, or chat, or whatever.<br /><br />Now for many companies, remote working != a distributed team. &nbsp;Some companies are embracing the idea of working from home, even despite Yahoo's announcement, but frequently mandate a day or more in the office per week. &nbsp;Even at LMAX we could work from home when necessary. &nbsp;Offshoring is still common in many companies, and these teams might be based anywhere in the world. &nbsp;So managing a team remotely is not that uncommon either. &nbsp;But I can't find many companies who do what 10gen does -<br /><br /><br /><br />Biggest challenges:<br />&nbsp;- Timezone<br /><br /><br /><br />&nbsp;- show and tell on hangout<br />&nbsp;- release planning and estimation is coming in<br />&nbsp;- meetings, loads of them<br /><br /><br /><br />remote is better for me<br />onsite is better for productivity<br /><br /></div>
