{
 "disqus_url" : "http://trishagee.github.io/post/a_nyse_product_manager_and_an_lmax_developer_walk_into_a_low_latency_trading_seminar/",
 "disqus_title" : "A NYSE Product Manager and an LMAX Developer walk into a low latency trading seminar...",
 "Title": "A NYSE Product Manager and an LMAX Developer walk into a low latency trading seminar...",
 "Pubdate": "2011-11-09",
 "Slug": "a_nyse_product_manager_and_an_lmax_developer_walk_into_a_low_latency_trading_seminar",
 "Section": "post"
}
"What... exactly... were you guys looking to get out of today's event? Because..."<br /><br />"Because we're girls?"<br /><br />"Um... yes..."<br /><br />Kim impetuously opts for The Truth: "We're here to meet men."<br /><br />Our interrogator looks round dubiously. <br /><br />"No, really, why are you here?"<br /><br />Phew. &nbsp;My reputation is intact<sup>1</sup><br /><br />Kim eloquently describes what her situation is as Product Manager and the criteria she's measuring third party products against. &nbsp;I explain how LMAX aims to be the fastest retail exchange in the world, and therefore low latency is a tiny bit important to us. &nbsp;I talk about how we created <a href="http://code.google.com/p/disruptor/">The Disruptor</a> on our path to achieve that goal. &nbsp;The guys gathered around us look a little... shell-shocked.<br /><br />I'm exaggerating for Dramatic Effect. &nbsp;Before anyone starts getting upset about the only two girls at the event who weren't staff or hospitality being singled out, you have to give the guys credit. &nbsp;They approached us, engaged us in conversation, and had a very serious question about what we were after, and was there anything the vendor could do to either improve their offering or to make their sales pitch more appealing.<br /><br />And don't get me wrong - it's brilliant being different in a situation like that, if people are brave / foolish / drunk enough to talk to you. &nbsp;It beats the hell out of sitting in a corner trying to get up the nerve to speak to Strangers (been there, done that).<br /><br />But it is quite a contrast, even from the Java events (JAX London, Java One). &nbsp;There, I was in a select group of people of the female&nbsp;persuasion. &nbsp;But I was also part of a community, and treated as A Developer. &nbsp;At very specialised events (low latency, high performance in particular) diversity is almost non-existent. &nbsp;You can count the number of women on one hand (if you can see any at all) and even the developers wear suits (poor bastards). &nbsp;However it would probably be better if you could hide your surprise at hearing technical terminology coming out of a woman's mouth. <br /><br />But... I kinda like it. &nbsp;Yes, I'm an alien. &nbsp;Yes, I'm special. &nbsp;But if it means you make the extra effort to speak to me, I can live with that.<br /><br /><br /><sup>1</sup>&nbsp;"Extra extra, read all about it! <i>Blogger And International Conference Speaker Only Does It To Meet Boys</i>!" &nbsp;Not quite <i>Jordan Stalks Rugby Ace For Sperm Donor</i>. &nbsp;Which I really did see this morning.<br /><br />EDIT: oh yes, and of course I forgot to plug my panel at Devoxx next week: <a href="http://devoxx.com/display/DV11/Why+We+Shouldn%27t+Target+Women">"Why we shouldn't target women"</a>
