{
 "disqus_url" : "http://trishagee.github.io/post/devoxx_the_problem_with_women__a_technical_approach/",
 "disqus_title" : "Devoxx: The Problem with Women - A Technical Approach",
 "Title": "Devoxx: The Problem with Women - A Technical Approach",
 "Pubdate": "2012-12-18",
 "Keywords": ["video", "gender", "conferences"],
 "Tags": ["video", "gender", "conferences"],
 "Slug": "devoxx_the_problem_with_women__a_technical_approach",
 "Section": "post"
}
As well as talking about, you know, <a href="http://mechanitis.blogspot.co.uk/2012/12/agile-when-agile-goes-well.html">actual work-type-stuff</a>, I was encouraged to give my "Technical Approach to Women" presentation at Devoxx. &nbsp;This went so well at JavaOne that I thought it would be difficult to top. &nbsp;Also, I wasn't convinced it would work at Devoxx, because the theatres are not well suited to audience participation - the seats are warm and comfy, the room is dark, the speaker is on stage in front of a massive screen....<br /><br />I was incredibly impressed with the audience. &nbsp;There were literally hundreds of people, most of them men. &nbsp;To me, it proved once again that the men in this industry are determined to "fix" this problem of gender imbalance. &nbsp;And they're happy to extend that to improving diversity as a whole, once you highlight the bigger problem. &nbsp;It says to me that this is not naturally a misogynistic industry, where you have to fight against the boys club to get anywhere. &nbsp;It says to me that we are all in this together. &nbsp;After all, in the "real" world the geeks are still outsiders, and different, so we're used to embracing our different-ness - whether that's because you're the only girl in the room, the only Java developer at a .NET conference, or the only techy at a dinner party.<br /><br />Conferences are a self-selecting audience, I know - these are the people who are investing time and money in advancing their careers, or at least encouraging their employers to do. &nbsp;But for the punchline of this session, these are exactly the right people. &nbsp;We need to go out, tell everyone how much we enjoy our jobs; tell kids that programming is cool, and <i>show</i> them it's fun; mentor other people, and each other, and be a role model. &nbsp;I don't care what gender you are or what colour you are or what your dark secret is - <i>you</i> are the role model to inspire someone. <br /><br /><a href="http://mechanitis.blogspot.co.uk/p/just-do-something.html">Just do it</a>.<br /><br /><div style="text-align: center;"><object height="395" width="395">  <param name="movie" value="http://www.parleys.com/dist/share/parleysshare.swf"/>  <param name="allowFullScreen" value="true"/>  <param name="wmode" value="direct"/>  <param name="bgcolor" value="#222222"/>  <param name="flashVars" value="sv=true&amp;pageId=3513"/>  <embed src="http://www.parleys.com/dist/share/parleysshare.swf" type="application/x-shockwave-flash" flashVars="sv=true&amp;pageId=3513" allowfullscreen="true" bgcolor="#222222" width="395" height="395"/></object></div>
