{
 "disqus_url" : "http://trishagee.github.io/post/my_experiences_with_android_development/",
 "disqus_title" : "My Experiences with Android Development",
 "Title": "My Experiences with Android Development",
 "Pubdate": "2011-01-27",
 "Slug": "my_experiences_with_android_development",
 "Section": "post"
}
Because I was missing coding, and because my friend and I had an awesome phone app idea at the weekend, I thought I'd try my hand at developing an Android application this week.<br /><br />I want to give a quick overview of my preliminary thoughts on getting started on this endeavour. <br /><br />Background: I've got more than 10 years Java experience, but any UI for the applications I've worked on was always a web UI. &nbsp;I am <i>completely</i> new to mobile app development.<br /><br /><b>Getting Started</b><br />I spent maybe a day and a half reading the excellent <a href="http://developer.android.com/guide/basics/what-is-android.html">Android developer documentation</a>&nbsp;and attempting to hack out a quick 'droid app.<br /><br />I was surprised to find the <a href="http://developer.android.com/guide/topics/fundamentals.html">Application Fundamentals</a> section actually made sense to me. &nbsp;There appears to be a clear architecture with design guidelines laid out for developers to follow. &nbsp;This shouldn't really be a surprise I suppose, but years of hacking around with web UIs with poorly implemented MVC architectures must have left me thinking that all frameworks are less "frame" and more "work".<br /><br /><b>Setup</b><br />I remember the disaster of trying to get my first JDK working on my 486 - what a nightmare! &nbsp;And getting Tomcat 3 installed and running? &nbsp;Forget it. &nbsp;I also remember the last time I made a serious stab at a learning a new technology. &nbsp;I tried develop a <a href="http://www.grails.org/">Grails</a>/Groovy application in Eclipse. &nbsp;The IS guys had to rescue my laptop from me during that enterprise before I could do it any serious damage.<br /><br />Installing the SDK on my mac was surprisingly simple, especially bearing in mind I'm new both to OSX and to mobile development. &nbsp;I don't know if it's because Android development has been well thought out and well supported, or if it's a function of both the industry's maturity and my own experience. <br /><br />The integration with <a href="http://www.jetbrains.com/idea/">IntelliJ</a> was much slicker than I expected, especially since I'm using the freebie Community edition. &nbsp;I don't remember the exact steps to tell it I wanted to create an Android project, but it must have been ridiculously easy otherwise I would remember the trauma. &nbsp;I do remember a little confusion around installing the Android platform - I hadn't understood the difference between installing the SDK and then installing a specific API for it. &nbsp;But the <a href="http://developer.android.com/guide/developing/other-ide.html">documentation</a> and the <a href="http://developer.android.com/guide/developing/tools/othertools.html#android">android</a> application got me on the right track in the end. &nbsp;And then when I clicked the "run" button in IntelliJ, hey presto! &nbsp;The emulator appeared and there was my app!<br /><br /><div style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">I loved the emulator. &nbsp;I had some confused idea that I would have to plug my own phone into the laptop to see my application. &nbsp;Instead, the emulator looks enough like my actual phone to give me decent feedback on how the app is going to behave. &nbsp;The downside is I was trying to play with the camera, and I couldn't see how that would really work in the emulator, but I got a fair idea.</div><div style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;"><br /></div><div style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;"><b>Did it work?</b></div><div style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">I managed to get a rudimentary application running, with a button and some descriptive text (it's not about to win any awards). &nbsp;The button was supposed to launch the camera viewer, but my first few attempts just resulted in the crash notification. &nbsp;It didn't take long to figure out how to use <a href="http://developer.android.com/guide/developing/debug-tasks.html">logcat</a> to see the stack trace and see I hadn't set the permissions correctly to use the camera, so I rooted through the <a href="http://developer.android.com/resources/samples/ApiDemos/src/com/example/android/apis/graphics/CameraPreview.html">CameraPreview</a> example in <a href="http://developer.android.com/resources/samples/ApiDemos/index.html">APIDemos </a>to figure out how to set up the AndroidManifest.xml correctly, and rather amazingly it all worked!</div><div style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;"><br /></div><div style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;"><b>Any downsides?</b></div><div style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">I was surprised (and slightly disappointed) at the amount of XML configuration. &nbsp;I've seen plenty of evil Spring and Ant XML in the enterprise and I thought frameworks were moving away from that. &nbsp;The manifest I can understand I suppose, but it felt a bit weird to be defining the UI in XML. &nbsp;It seemed like a bit of an afterthought tagged on after all the well-defined architecture behind the scenes.</div><div style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;"><br /></div><div style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">But maybe this will make more sense to me as I develop my application further.</div><div style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;"><br /></div><div style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;"><b>In Summary</b></div><div style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;"></div><ul><li>I was pleasantly surprised to be able to get an Android application (albeit a very basic one) working in only a few hours.</li><li>Development in IntelliJ was <i>much </i>easier than I expected.</li><li>The documentation is actually very good.</li></ul><div style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">We'll see how I feel about it when I start trying to do more than a very simple example application.</div><div style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;"><br /></div>
