{
 "disqus_url" : "http://trishagee.github.io/post/on_the_similarities_between_girls_and_aliens/",
 "disqus_title" : "On The Similarities Between Girls And Aliens",
 "Title": "On The Similarities Between Girls And Aliens",
 "Pubdate": "2011-10-28",
 "Slug": "on_the_similarities_between_girls_and_aliens",
 "Section": "post"
}
I discovered, through the power of the search words that lead to my blog, that there was <a href="https://plus.google.com/110635974610895095726/posts/fTygidL33cx">an incident at JavaOne</a> that once again opens the can of worms that is Sexism In IT.<br /><br />This Makes Me Sad. &nbsp;I had a really positive experience at JavaOne. &nbsp;In fact, I would say it was the one conference I've been to in the last 12 months where I felt like my gender <i>wasn't</i> a problem - I even got away with wearing hotpants (tweed is business-casual, right??) without being mistaken for anything other than a developer.<br /><br />I know incidents like this cause a lot of tension, and I want to explore why. &nbsp;Get ready for some gross generalisations: women get upset because they feel they're being marginalised or treated differently; men get upset because they think we're being over-sensitive, especially when the cause is something unintentional. &nbsp;I sometimes wonder, as I'm sure other people do, if perhaps picking up every incident harms our cause more than advancing it. &nbsp;But then I feel that the&nbsp;unconscious&nbsp;stuff is exactly the stuff that needs to be pointed out - if you don't realise you're causing a problem, you can't change your behaviour.<br /><br />So what I wanted to do was... well, what I wanted to do was not rant about gender (again) and be a good little non-gendered programmer. &nbsp;But then I thought that spreading a bit of understanding might be A Good Thing. &nbsp;After all, we're all about <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continuous_improvement_process">continuous improvement</a>, right?<br /><br />I'm sure many people have been one of a minority at some point in their lives (brace yourselves for a litany of stereotyping) - the only man at their daughter's dance recital; the only white guy on a basketball team; the only straight guy in a gay bar (accidents happen!); the only girl on the development team...  Speaking for myself, in those situations I'm not actually looking for things which prove that I'm Not One Of Them.  I'm sub-consciously seeking reassurance that I'm not an alien, a freak of nature, the odd one out.<br /><br />I've been in mostly male environments for the last 16 years - this is the norm for me, it's my life. &nbsp;It freaks me out if I'm surrounded by women actually. &nbsp;What's jarring and uncomfortable is when the difference of your gender becomes apparent: when all the t-shirts are boy-shaped and boy-sized; when someone makes a joke about "women"; when someone addresses the room with "Gentlemen" - or worse, they try and make up for it: "Gentlemen. &nbsp;Oh, and Ladies. &nbsp;Well, Lady &lt;nervous smile&gt;". &nbsp;Thanks, that doesn't make me feel like an outsider <i>at all</i>.<br /><br />Something else that really highlights the difference in genders is when you have plenty of women at the conference... but they're not the attendees. &nbsp;They're manning the booths (marketing/sales or just plain hired "help"), they're taking tickets, they're dishing out the lunches. &nbsp;In these cases, it becomes normal to assume that "girl" = "staff". &nbsp;Not guest. &nbsp;Not equal.<br /><br /><a href="http://mechanitis.blogspot.com/2011/04/tradetech-2011-not-like-developer.html">TradeTech</a> was one of the worst examples of this that I've experienced. &nbsp;Those (wo)manning the booths had been chosen for their aesthetics not their knowledge. &nbsp;There was even entertainment consisting of scantily clad stilt-walkers - at a financial conference! &nbsp;I made the mistake of turning up in a skirt - for those who know my dress sense, it was not one of my arse-length ones, it was just above my knees - and everyone assumed I was selling something. I had a job to persuade them that I had actually paid for my ticket.<br /><br />So. &nbsp;What am I trying to get at?<br /><ul><li>We're not trying to make you uncomfortable when we point out tiny accidental possibly maybe sexist or sexist-seeming comments/incidents. &nbsp;We're trying to stamp out behaviour that can&nbsp;subconsciously&nbsp;be pushing women (or other minorities/groups) out of our industry. &nbsp;We like it here, we want to stay, and we want others to join us.</li><li>It's very easy to alienate people who are not 100% comfortable in your environment. &nbsp;Every time I see t-shirts in boys size only I'm reminded I'm Not One Of You.</li></ul><div>...and what can we do?</div><div><ul><li>Well, the t-shirts is an easy one. &nbsp;So easy, and so stupid, you might not think it's worthwhile. &nbsp;Especially as people like me don't even <i>want</i> your free t-shirt. &nbsp;But I want to feel like you wanted me to want it. &nbsp;Please stock some skinny-fit tees in multiple sizes, and stock smalls and mediums of the normal shape. &nbsp;There are guys who would like this too. &nbsp;Even if you can't get rid of your skinny tees, it will do wonders for your image.</li><li>Never assume your audience is all male. &nbsp;Never even assume it's "mostly" male. &nbsp;If your sister/girlfriend/mother/daughter might frown at something you're saying, don't say it. &nbsp;You'll look like an idiot. &nbsp;You can assume your audience is all technical, and joke about managers, or is all Java, and take the mickey out of C#. &nbsp;Don't draw arbitrary battle lines based on gender/race/origin - any jokes should make all the audience feel included, not like specific individuals are excluded.</li><li>There's already been a lot said elsewhere about encouraging women speakers at events. &nbsp;I'm totally behind this, but it's a fine line because I'm also totally against positive discrimination. &nbsp;For the purposes of this blog, I would just say make sure you have some women on your speakers list, in the same way you would probably ensure you have a Java 7 talk, or a talk on the shiniest new technology, or other miscellaneous checkboxes you need to tick in order to make your conference a success.</li><li>Not sure what to suggest around many of the girls there being staff... I guess something simple like clear uniforms would stop people assuming female delegates are there to hand out lunch. &nbsp;And making sure that your staff/helpers/organisers are of both genders too.</li></ul><div>If you're interested in this whole topic, or want to tell me I'm wrong to my face, come along my panel at Devoxx - <a href="http://www.devoxx.com/display/DV11/Why+We+Shouldn%27t+Target+Women">Why We Shouldn't Target Women</a>.</div></div>
