{
 "disqus_url" : "http://trishagee.github.io/post/oscon_day_one/",
 "disqus_title" : "OSCON Day One",
 "Title": "OSCON Day One",
 "Pubdate": "2012-07-19",
 "Keywords": ["oscon", "conferences"],
 "Tags": ["oscon", "conferences"],
 "Slug": "oscon_day_one",
 "Section": "post"
}
So, my first day at my very first <a href="http://www.oscon.com/oscon2012">OSCON</a>. &nbsp;I have to say that when <a href="https://twitter.com/kittylyst">Ben</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/karianna">Martijn</a> told me I <i>had</i> to do OSCON, that it was one of <i>the</i> conferences to go to, I was sceptical - not because I thought it would be rubbish, but because I have enjoyed all the conferences I've been to for different reasons.<br /><br />But I'm really impressed so far.<br /><br /><b>The program</b> is packed with great topics and speakers, and so many things I want to see that clash with each other. &nbsp;It's frustrating, and all the sessions get in the way of all that networking stuff!<br /><br /><b>The people</b> are so friendly. &nbsp;They smile at you randomly in the corridor. &nbsp;They talk to you for no reason. &nbsp;As a Londoner it comes as a bit of a shock to the system. &nbsp;And it's nice! &nbsp;Great conversations with different people.<br /><br /><b>The venue</b>&nbsp;is set up for these encounters with plenty of places to sit with the laptop or mingle or meet and sit with people at lunchtime.<br /><br /><b>The exhibition area</b> is not a total waste of time! &nbsp;The booths are full of educated people not selling me "solutions" that I have no power to implement in my company, but engaging me in conversation about things that interest me as a developer. &nbsp;Many of these are even useful for my day job - who knew!<br /><br />Some of the sessions are being streamed so if you're not here, I highly recommend that - from what I've seen so far the quality of the video is good and it's the next best thing to actually being here.<br /><br />I'm inspired, actually. &nbsp;It's clear to me that Open Source is key to our industry. &nbsp;Not just because of the technologies that have been created that help power some of our most successful companies. &nbsp;But because with only the love of the thing you're doing to motivate the developers, community / cooperation / people / soft-fluffy-stuff is fundamental to success. &nbsp;Talks here have highlighted to me that there are lessons that money-making companies can learn from this community around how to motivate your developers. &nbsp;There are even lessons I have learnt today around how to improve relationships in my personal life.<br /><br />Why isn't this community the poster child for our industry? &nbsp;Why isn't this the entry point for everyone interested in development? &nbsp;I know we say (even I've said it myself) that contributing to a project is a great way to advance your career, especially if you're junior. &nbsp;But we can also showcase some of the really interesting stuff about being a developer by using the open source community - communication, cooperation, and working on cool stuff. <br /><br />Why is it that even within our industry, the open source community is seen as being niche, and difficult to get into?
