{
 "disqus_url" : "http://trishagee.github.io/post/the_subject_of_women_programmers_is_boring/",
 "disqus_title" : "The subject of women programmers is boring",
 "Title": "The subject of women programmers is boring",
 "Pubdate": "2012-06-24",
 "Slug": "the_subject_of_women_programmers_is_boring",
 "Section": "post"
}
<br /><div class="p1">I've been challenged to do a session at a very large conference around women in programming. &nbsp;Which leads to two reactions from me 1) wow, what an honour! and 2) *sigh*.</div><div class="p2"><br /></div><div class="p1">The problem with these sessions is that you're preaching to the choir.&nbsp; Those who turn up are a) women or b) men who are sympathetic and supportive to the cause.&nbsp; People who are actively discriminating against women or, more commonly, those who don't know their actions are hurting diversity in our industry, are the least likely to receive the message.</div><div class="p2"><br /></div><div class="p1">This tends to lead to the same types of sessions - yes, our industry under-represents certain segments of society (i.e. women); yes, we all agree this is a problem; yes, everyone in this room is trying their best to do the right things; no, we have no idea how to fix it at the industry-level.</div><div class="p2"><br /></div><div class="p1">These sessions are <i>boring</i>.</div><div class="p2"><br /></div><div class="p1">How do you make this subject interesting, relevant, and appeal to the types of people it really should target?</div><div class="p2"><br /></div><div class="p1">I'm considering all sorts of games with the title, even going so far as to put "Boobs" in it. &nbsp;I <i>very</i> much doubt that will make my final selection. &nbsp;I'm thinking hard about the format, I definitely don't want it to be preachy, I want it to be informative, collaborative, and, preferably, funny. &nbsp;Not too much to ask, right?</div><div class="p2"><br /></div><div class="p1">In programming, if something is difficult to do right, it's a sign of a smell - the feature being requested might be contrary to the purpose of the product; the application might not have been designed around the business's real requirements; there could be a large amount of tech debt that should have been cleaned up along the way but wasn't; the requirements might be fluffy, changeable, or simply outright wrong.</div><div class="p2"><br /></div><div class="p1">Does the fact that we can't get these sessions right point to a smell as well?</div><div class="p2"><br /></div><div class="p1">Are they pitched at the wrong people? &nbsp;Are we saying the wrong things, suggesting the wrong ideas, tackling the wrong problem? &nbsp;Should we even be talking about women in technology?</div><div class="p2"><br /></div><div class="p1">Or am I just the wrong person to do it? &nbsp;I don't even want to be the spokesperson for women developers.&nbsp; I can only be the spokesperson for me.</div><div class="p2"><br /></div><div class="p1">Overall I can't help but think we're missing the point again. &nbsp;If I think that events aimed at girls are wrong, then I think that sessions at conferences aimed at highlighting the missing women there is also wrong. &nbsp;But this is a great audience to reach - these are people who want to further their careers, who are likely to be putting in extra hours to improve themselves/their company/the industry. &nbsp;Give a techy a tricky problem to gnaw on and there's no-one happier. &nbsp;And what could be more tricky than the seemingly-unsolvable problem of attracting greater diversity into technical roles?</div><div class="p2"><br /></div><div class="p1">The answer might lie in shaping the problem such that it is interesting enough, difficult enough and technical enough for us.</div><div class="p2"><br /></div><div class="p1">Or maybe the answer is simply accepting the fact that you're not going to change those who are part of the problem, but you can change the message you are giving.&nbsp; I know many men are tired of being berated about this issue because they're already doing the best they can.&nbsp; I know many women are bored of hearing about it because they're already here.&nbsp; Maybe it's time to look at the problem differently and suggest an alternative approach.</div><div class="p2"><br /></div><div class="p1">If only I knew what that was...</div>
