{
 "disqus_url" : "http://trishagee.github.io/post/upcoming_speaking_events/",
 "disqus_title" : "Upcoming speaking events",
 "Title": "Upcoming speaking events",
 "Pubdate": "2012-02-01",
 "Keywords": ["disruptor", "conferences"],
 "Tags": ["disruptor", "conferences"],
 "Slug": "upcoming_speaking_events",
 "Section": "post"
}
In theory, I am busy writing material for my upcoming speaking events, rather than writing terribly <a href="http://mechanitis.blogspot.com/2011/12/christmas-decorations-teach-me-lesson.html">illuminating</a> posts on my blog (see what I did there?). &nbsp;In actuality I am being lazy and have pretty much taken January off for a recharge.<br /><br />In the spirit of doing something which ticks both the event-speaking and blogging boxes, this is a quick update on the conferences I'm confirmed for so far. &nbsp;Put the following dates in your diary - these are my first international solo speaking events:<br /><br />7th March - QCon London - <a href="http://qconlondon.com/london-2012/speaker/Trisha+Gee">Concurrent Programming Using The Disruptor</a>&nbsp;(sadly I can't stay for the whole conference as it clashes with the only holiday I had booked for 2012).<br />23rd May - GOTO Copenhagen - <a href="http://gotocon.com/cph-2012/speaker/Trisha+Gee">Concurrent Programming Using The Disruptor</a>&nbsp;&amp; War Stories.<br />25-26th May - GOTO Amsterdam - <a href="http://gotocon.com/amsterdam-2012/speaker/Trisha+Gee">Concurrent Programming Using The Disruptor</a>.<br /><br />The presentation will be more of a user's guide to the Disruptor than anything we've done before. &nbsp;An hour isn't a lot of time to cover all the functionality everyone might want to see, so I'm still trying to work out the balance between giving an introduction/overview for those who haven't seen it before, and going into some of the cool features that have been added since I first started blogging about it. &nbsp;If there's anything you would particularly like to see covered, let me know - I'll put the most frequently requested things in there.<br /><br />Ideally I'd run a workshop session at some point, but that will require quite a lot more preparation, so I'll only do that if there is interest in it (if someone wants to fly me somewhere interesting to do that so much the better!!).<br /><br />Maybe I'll see you at one of these events?
