{
 "disqus_url" : "http://trishagee.github.io/post/upcoming_events/",
 "disqus_title" : "Upcoming Events",
 "Title": "Upcoming Events",
 "Pubdate": "2012-09-01",
 "Keywords": ["jax london", "JavaOne12", "conferences"],
 "Tags": ["jax london", "JavaOne12", "conferences"],
 "Slug": "upcoming_events",
 "Section": "post"
}
So yeah... in keeping with this year's theme of basically only blogging about the exciting conferences I've been to, I'm going to blog about the exciting conferences I am attending in the future. &nbsp;I haven't been great at doing that, the disconnect between the time I submit a presentation and the actual announcement means that I often forget I haven't told anyone about what I'm up to.<br /><br />Firstly, I'm back in the States this month to present my very first workshop - <a href="https://thestrangeloop.com/sessions/concurrent-programming-using-the-disruptor">An Introduction to the Disruptor</a>&nbsp;at Strangeloop. &nbsp;I've been given a mere 6 months to prepare it (note: sarcasm) and it's still a work in progress. &nbsp;So, if you're coming, feel free to suggest things you want to see covered. &nbsp;If you are coming, I'd love to hear from you.<br /><br />Secondly, I'm back in the States again a minute and a half later for several presentations at JavaOne. &nbsp;I really enjoyed JavaOne last year, it was my first international conference, my first speaking gig, and a great place to meet loads of dead interesting people. &nbsp;This year I'm being greedy and I'm doing more than one talk:<br /><br /><ul><li>Sun 30th Sept:&nbsp;UGF10467 - Benefits of Open Source&nbsp;</li><li>Mon&nbsp;1st Oct:&nbsp;CON3732 - Concurrent Programming with the Disruptor</li><li>Wed 3rd Oct:&nbsp;CON5130 - London Java Community: How to Change the World</li><li>Wed 3rd Oct:&nbsp;CON11338 - The Problem with Women: A Technical Approach</li></ul><br />I'm afraid the content catalog totally confounds me, so I can't link to each talk specifically, but you should be able to search on the identifiers.<br /><br />        Then I'm back on home turf, at <a href="http://jaxlondon.com/2012/sessions/?tid=2604#session-22064">JAX London</a>, doing the Disruptor talk yet again. &nbsp;I always enjoy JAX, it has a lot of participation from <a href="http://www.londonjavacommunity.co.uk/">LJC</a> members, it attracts an international set of speakers and it's right on my doorstep.<br /><br />Finally, I'd really, really like to go to Devoxx again this year, but that hasn't been confirmed yet. &nbsp;I'll do everything in my power to be there, but no promises.<br /><br /><br />Right. &nbsp;I suppose I had better get back to writing this workshop...
