{
 "disqus_url" : "http://trishagee.github.io/post/why_java_developers_hate_net/",
 "disqus_title" : "Why Java developers hate .NET",
 "Title": "Why Java developers hate .NET",
 "Pubdate": "2011-05-20",
 "Keywords": ["ide", "java", "lmax", ".net", "code", "c#"],
 "Tags": ["ide", "java", "lmax", ".net", "code", "c#"],
 "Slug": "why_java_developers_hate_net",
 "Section": "post"
}
I have been struggling with .NET.&nbsp; Actually, I have been fighting pitched battles with it.<br /><br />All I want to do is take our existing Java client example code and write an equivalent in C#.&nbsp; Easy, right?<br /><br /><h3>Trisha's Guide to Converting Java to C#</h3>Turns out writing the actual C# is relatively straightforward.&nbsp; Putting to one side the question of writing optimal code (these are very basic samples after all), to get the examples to compile and run was a simple process:<br /><br /><h4>1. Find-and-replace the following (only you can't use Ctrl+R like I expect.&nbsp; Sigh.)</h4><blockquote style="line-height: 16px; size: 10px;"><code>final</code> = <code>readonly</code> (but remove from method params)<br /><code>System.out.printf</code> = <code>Console.WriteLine</code><br /><code>Map</code> = <code>Dictionary</code><br /><code>BigDecimal</code> = <code>decimal</code><br /><code>Set</code>... oh.&nbsp; I have no idea. </blockquote><br /><h4>2. When using callbacks, replace anonymous inner classes with delegates</h4><br /><b>Java</b><br /><blockquote style="clear: both;"><pre><code>something.doSomething(new SomethingRequest(),<br />  new SomethingCallBack()<br />  {<br />    public void onSuccess()<br />    {<br />      System.out.println("Action successful");<br />    }<br />  <br />    public void onFailure()<br />    {<br />      System.err.println("Action failed");<br />    }<br />  });</code></pre></blockquote><br /><b>C#</b><br /><blockquote style="clear: both;"><pre><code>private void foo ()<br />{<br />  _something.DoSomething(new SomethingRequest(), <br />                         SomethingSuccess, <br />                         SomethingFailure);<br />}<br /><br />private void SomethingSuccess()<br />{<br />  Console.WriteLine("Action successful");<br />}<br /><br />private void SomethingFailure()<br />{<br />  Console.Error.WriteLine("Action failed");<br />}</code></pre></blockquote><br />I rather like this pattern actually.  You can't really tell in the noddy example above, but the C# code is generally shorter and more reusable.<br /><br /><h4>3. Replace getters and setters with properties</h4><br /><b>Java</b><br /><blockquote style="clear: both;"><pre><code>private class MyClass<br />{<br />  private BigDecimal myField = new BigDecimal("-1.0");<br /><br />  public BigDecimal getMyField()<br />  {<br />    return myField;<br />  }<br /><br />  public void setMyField(BigDecimal instructionId)<br />  {<br />    this.myField = myField<br />  }<br />}</code></pre></blockquote><br /><b>C#</b><br /><blockquote style="clear: both;"><pre><code>internal class MyClass<br />{<br />  public decimal MyField{ get; set; }<br />}</code></pre></blockquote><br />What the... where did all my code go??<br /><br /><h4>My Thoughts</h4>I was pleasantly surprised with the language.  In general, for what I was doing, the equivalent C# was a lot less code.  The fact that the syntax is not wildly different from Java made the transition relatively easy, even if I don't get all the nuances.<br /><br />I didn't really like the enums - I can see what purpose they serve, but I quite like the way the Java ones are pretty much classes in their own right with properties of their own - it allows you to encapsulate some of your simplest domain objects.  But it's a minor point, not a deal-breaker.<br /><br />The C# capitalisation makes me queasy though.  I just can't get my head around it.  In Java, if I say:<br /><pre>com.mechanitis.foo.Bar</pre>I know the class is Bar and the rest is the package (or namespace, or whatever).  This is more useful when you're using static methods and so forth:<br /><pre>com.mechanitis.foo.Bar.thatThingIWantToDo()</pre><br />In C#, I know the thing at the end is a method and the thing before that is a class, but it doesn't jump out at me:<br /><pre>Com.Mechanitis.Foo.Bar.ThatThingIWantToDo();</pre><br />And if you're using a property:<br /><pre>Com.Mechanitis.Foo.Bar.MyProperty;</pre><br />The whole thing makes me dizzy.<br /><br />You could argue that all this is redundant with modern tools and IDEs doing all the heavy lifting for you - nice colourisation etc.<br /><br />Which brings me to The Rant.<br /><br /><h3>Oh My Dear God What Is Wrong With Visual Studio?</h3>C# needs to be a shorter, more succinct language because it takes <i>three billion times longer</i> to do anything in Visual bloody Studio.<br /><br />I'm coming at this from a Java, <a href="http://www.jetbrains.com/idea/">IntelliJ </a>point of view, so there's always the possibility it might be lack of familiarity with the tool, rather than the tool itself, which is the problem.&nbsp; It's a long time since I used VS, and that was back in the 90s when I was doing ASP and COM (shhh, don't tell anyone).<br /><br />But things shouldn't be this hard.&nbsp; I was ready to accept, due to my newbie status, the IDE not helping me. I didn't expect it to actively hinder me.<br /><br />For example: it took hours of my life that I will never get back to discover that you can't simply run a class that has a main method by right-clicking and selecting "run" (note: I'm not even trying Ctrl+F10).&nbsp; No.&nbsp; I have to select, at a Solution level, which Projects are runnable.&nbsp; Then I have to select at the Project level the class with the main method I actually want to run.&nbsp; Then, it opens up a terminal window and runs it in there, which promptly disappears when the program errors or finishes.&nbsp; What's wrong with outputting in the output window of the IDE? Is that not what it's for?<br /><br />Finally I worked out how to run the cursed program (seriously, like that's not the first thing everyone wants to do?&nbsp; How do people write "Hello World"?).&nbsp; Now, where are the command line arguments?&nbsp; Of course, they're at the project properties level too, because each project only has one entry point. &nbsp;I seriously had to Google that too because I couldn't work it out from the IDE alone.<br /><br /><br />The next day, my <a href="http://www.jetbrains.com/resharper/">ReSharper </a>licence had expired. &nbsp;I decided I should attempt to limp on without it, after all hundreds of developers must be surviving with just Visual Studio. &nbsp;How bad could it be?<br /><br />Very bad, it turns out.<br /><br />All those helpful little squiggles I was leaning heavily on to convert my Java to C#?<br /><br /><ul><li>The red to tell you you're utterly wrong.</li><li>The orange to tell you could be using less code.</li><li>The blue to remind you to stop thinking in Java and helpfully offer corrected naming.</li><li>The green to suggest stuff that C# could do differently.</li></ul><br />Yeah, all gone.<br /><br />How do people code like this?&nbsp; Do they really just do a build to check if it's all wrong or not?<br /><br />Next, I try to find a class. &nbsp;I actually&nbsp;have no idea how to do this, because I can't use Ctrl+N.&nbsp; So I Ctrl<br /><br />I realise this is a waste of time anyway, because one thing that <i>really</i> annoys me about Visual Studio is that I can't find a way to sync the project tree to the class file I'm looking at. &nbsp;I can't get it to jump to highlight where I am. &nbsp;When I'm using IntelliJ, I find this dead useful when I want to see other stuff in the same package.<br /><br />Less than ten minutes after attempting to use Visual Studio without ReSharper, I've abandoned the fight and tracked down a licence and installed it.<br /><br /><h3>Documentation isn't a standard function of .NET?</h3>What sort of message does this give developers? &nbsp;Documentation isn't important?<br /><br />I always thought&nbsp;Javadoc was pretty ugly and clunky. In addition, now our IDEs generate so much, it's frequently meaningless.&nbsp; But it is generated by standard Java tools, and HTML is a standard format that can be read on pretty much any computer with any operating system.<br /><br />I could not believe how hard it was to get the XML comments out of&nbsp;the&nbsp;C# into something the user can actually read.&nbsp; Thank goodness, <a href="http://www.symphonious.net/">some enterprising member of the team</a> had already done that for us. &nbsp;All I needed to do was hack/crowbar the tutorial I'd been working on into the generated documentation, so it ended up in the Windows help files in some fashion.<br /><br />I know there's a way to get HTML/XML files into the end result using <a href="http://sandcastle.codeplex.com/">Sandcastle</a>, but hours of Googling only told me it <i>was</i> possible, not how to do it. &nbsp;I still have no idea what the correct question is to ask to find the solution.<br /><br />Right now, this is an unsolved mystery. &nbsp;Our .NET client users will have to read the plain HTML I'm afraid.<br /><br /><h3>In Conclusion</h3>Are we lowly Java developers spoilt with our shiny IDEs?<br /><br />Or is there such a fundamentally different approach to development for .NET people that all the functionality is there, I just can't find it?<br /><br />I'm disappointed if I'm honest.&nbsp; I'm sure the .NET camp used to tout their tools as their superiority.&nbsp; I ended up feeling sorry for the poor NET people.&nbsp; Is there anything they can use that isn't Visual Studio?<br /><br /><br />In Conclusion: Despite the nasty capitalisation I found myself surprisingly taken with C#. &nbsp;But until they can give me a proper development environment, I won't be tempted by the dark side any time soon.
